# MTG Model

_Project Objective:_ We use Forge to model a simplified version of the trading card game Magic: The Gathering, a complex turn-based game where the turns subdivide into different possible actions and phases. The complete rulebook pdf is attached in this repo for reference. The scale of possibilities for a game of Magic is very wide-reaching, so we tried to constrain for this assignment by vastly simplifying it to only contain a few different types of cards and actions. Our eventual goal, when expanding this model for the final project, is to be able to model and explore potential unexpected game possibilities that are within the rule specifications and constraints of the game system.

*Model Design:* For our simplified model, we reduced the space of cards to just creatures and lands (which pay for creatures according to mana cost). This way, we do not have to handle various sorceries and instant that get played at different times with widespread effects. We started to set up the different actions possible as playing cards, attacking, blocking, untapping, and ending a turn, but only mostly to fully implemented playing cards and ending turns, as the complexity of the constraints increased very quickly. In our model, cards in the game can be in one of four locations: your deck (library), your hand, your battlefield, or your graveyard.

*Visualization:* For visualization, we are using the default Sterling visualizer. The run statement we have written at the moment shows a couple of actions taken by one or both players with a number of cards on the board. We find it useful for visualization to project through TIME, or occassionally through Action.

*Signatures and Predicates:* We implemented a few abstract sigs that encompass most of our representations: Player, Loc, Card, and Action. In order to attempt our goal of discovering interesting possible playthroughs, we wanted all moves made by the players to be tracked and reproducible. As such, we made all actions and items in the game into sigs, and we wrote predicates to constrain their behavior to make sure the gameplay was all legal and the Forge model logical. Most of the predicates are ensuring that the autogenerated cards are all legal, that the initial state is correct, and that the game flow works as we intend in the modeling: the actions occur in a linear order with correct player switching after turns and cards are played legally. 

*Testing:* We wrote a number of test predicates to test our different gameplay properties modeled. We chose not to fully spell out any example playthroughs due to the scale and complexity of our system and the amount of moving parts involved. While testing, we noticed a few unresolveable bugs in the constraining of the space, but we think that the predicates and sigs we have work together in a way that still gives a taste of a simplified version of some of the components of a Magic playthrough/turn.

*Credits:* Developed for CSCI 1710 jointly by Eitan Zemel and Daniel Hu